It can be a very complicated thing, the ocean.
And it can be a very complicated thing, what human health is.
And bringing those two together might seem a very daunting task,
but what I'm going to try to say is that
even in that complexity,
there's some simple themes that I think,
if we understand, we can really move forward.
And those simple themes aren't really
themes about the complex science of what's going on,
but things that we all pretty well know.
And I'm going to start with this one:
If momma ain't happy, ain't nobody happy.
We know that, right? We've experienced that.
And if we just take that
and we build from there,
then we can go to the next step,
which is that if the ocean ain't happy,
ain't nobody happy.
That's the theme of my talk.
And we're making the ocean pretty unhappy in a lot of different ways.
This is a shot of Cannery Row in 1932.
Cannery Row, at the time,
had the biggest industrial
canning operation on the west coast.
We piled enormous amounts of pollution
into the air and into the water.
Rolf Bolin, who was a professor
at the Hopkin's Marine Station where I work,
wrote in the 1940s that
The fumes from the scum floating on the inlets of the bay
were so bad they turned
lead-based paints black."
People working in these canneries
could barely stay there all day because of the smell,
but you know what they came out saying?
They say, "You know what you smell?
You smell money."
That pollution was money to that community,
and those people dealt with the pollution
and absorbed it into their skin and into their bodies
because they needed the money.
We made the ocean unhappy; we made people very unhappy,
and we made them unhealthy.
The connection between ocean health and human health
is actually based upon another couple simple adages,
and I want to call that
pinch a minnow, hurt a whale.
The pyramid of ocean life ...
Now, when an ecologist looks at the ocean -- I have to tell you --
we look at the ocean in a very different way,
